ACD-1069 (#91)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: PIM/API/05_ManageProducts.md

# Manage products 

You can manage your products via API. You can create, edit, delete, both permanently and temporary, and list *PIM* products. 

> > [Info] This documentation refers to the *PIM* module version 4.8.0. There may be differences in the addressable endpoints and attribute keys if your *PIM* module is installed in a different version.

Reviewer: sollte das nicht im Overview stehen?

Author: Wenn Overview für alle Module gelten soll, dann nicht...

[comment]: <> (CHECK!)

To manage your products via API, you need to provide the required key-value pairs in your requests. The following elements are essential: 

**Attribute key**

> Depending on the data you want to specify, you have to add the corresponding attribute, in its form as attribute key, to your request. For detailed information on the attribute key structure, see [Attributes](./03_KeyConcepts.md#attributes). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the data you want to specify, you have to add the corresponding attribute  in its form as an attribute key to your request. For detailed information on the attribute key structure, see [Attributes](./03_KeyConcepts.md#attributes). 
```

Bear in mind that keys are customer-defined. Therefore, the fields displayed in the following request samples should just serve as an example. For a practical example on how to use the request samples, see [How to use the request samples](./02_GetStarted.md#how-to-use-the-request-samples). 

> [Caution] In the latest version of the *PIM* and *DataHub* modules, it is possible to modify the attribute key. Bear in mind, though, that attribute keys are used for API access. Changing the attribute key, which is strongly discouraged, has an impact on the API naming for all affected entities where this attribute is included. That means that all external API consumers, workflows, webhooks, or other custom code need to be adjusted accordingly in case any of them address this attribute.

**Entity ID**

> You may need to provide an entity ID value to a specific attribute key. Any ID values you need, for example, the **attributeSetId**, must be an existing value in the *DataHub* module. You can find out an entity ID via user interface or via API. For detailed information, see [Retrieve entity data](./04_RetrieveEntityData.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may need to provide an entity ID value to a specific attribute key. Any ID values you need must be an existing value in the *DataHub* module, for example, the **attributeSetId**. You can find out an entity ID via user interface or via API. For detailed information, see [Retrieve entity data](./04_RetrieveEntityData.md).
```

**Data type**

The value you can give a specific attribute depends on the attribute's data type. For detailed information on the data types, see [Data types](../../DataHub/UserInterface/04_DataTypeList.md).

[comment]: <> (Zu prüfen: Attribute keys in kursiv oder nicht? Also *_pim_color* oder _pim_color, usw. In anderen Dateien es so gemacht, aber hier zu umständlich/verwirrend. Evtl. doch im Fließtext, damit es hervorgehoben ist, aber nicht in den Tabellen...)

## The product object

> Products represent the goods and services you offer to your customers. They are described through a set of attributes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Products represent the goods and services you offer to your customers. They are described by a set of attributes. 
```

The following table displays a list of all attributes contained in the *PIM basic set* (_pim_attribute_name) with their default data types and configuration. Additional fields, such as created and modified, are set by default in all entities and can be used to set filters. The required fields are marked in bold. 

> 

Reviewer: Tabelle unten: Ersetze e.g. mit for example siehe Style Guide https://actindo.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/96960517/Abbreviations

| _pim_products_relations | object | Product associations | It adds related products to the addressed product, e.g. for product recommendation. |
| _pim_completeness | object | Required attributes completeness | This attribute is for internal use only. |
| _pim_images | object | Product image | It allows to upload images. It contains the required field **id**. You need the path to the file location. | 
| _pim_files | string | Product-related file | It allows to upload files. It contains the required field **id**. You need the path to the file location. |
| _pim_channels_connection | object | Connection definition from *PIM* to *Omni-Channel* | It allows to connect a *PIM* product to an *Omni-Channel* offer. |
| _pim_stock_germany | number | Stock level in warehouse (Germany) | |
| _pim_stock_foreign | number | Stock level in warehouse (other countries) | |

[comment]: <> (Zu prüfen: _pim_product_relations, _pim_products_bundle, _pim_catalogs, _pim_channels_connection. Nicht geschafft via API.)

## Create a product

> In the *PIM* module, you can create three sorts of products:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *PIM* module, you can create the following kinds of products:
```

 - a single product, that is, a product without variations, such as a game 
 - a master product, that is, a product with variations, for example, in size or color
 - a variant product, that is, each of the variations of a master product 

There are two possible ways to create a master-variant product family:

1. Create all products independently first and then link them all at once, as described below: 

    - Create a single or master product, see [Sample: Create a simple product](#sample-create-a-single-product) or [Sample: Create a master product](#sample-create-a-master-product).
    - Add relevant information to variant products, see [Sample: Add variant defining attributes](#sample-add-variant-defining-attributes).
    - Create a variant-master product family, see [Create a product family](#create-a-product-family). 

2. Create a single or master product first and then add to it any number of variants at once. For detailed information, see [Create a variant product](./06_ManageVariantProducts.md#create-a-variant-product).

> Depending on the sort of product, the required fields vary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the kind of product, the required fields vary.
```

### Sample: Create a single product

    {
        "product": {
            "sku": "Single-product",
            "attributeSetId": 102
        }
    }

### Sample: Create a single product in two languages

    {
        "product": {
            "sku": "Single-product",
            "attributeSetId": 102,
            "_pim_art_name__actindo_basic__en_US": "Single product",
            "_pim_art_name__actindo_basic__de_DE": "Einzelprodukt",
            "_pim_products_description__actindo_basic__en_US": "This is a product description.",
            "_pim_products_description__actindo_basic__de_DE": "Das ist eine Produktbeschreibung."
        }
    }

> ### Sample: Create a single product with different prices pro scope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample: Create a single product with different prices per scope
```

            "sku": "Master-product",
            "attributeSetId": 102,
            "variantStatus": "master",
            "_pim_variants": {
                "isMasterEntity": true,
                "variantSetId": 91
            }
        }
    }

If you want to create one or multiple variant products to a master product at once, see [Create a variant product](./06_ManageVariantProducts.md#create-a-variant-product).

## Edit a product

You can edit a product via API to modify any number of field values at a time. You can also add attributes to an existing product.  

**Endpoint**: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.save

#### Definitions

For a list of standard *PIM* attributes, see [The product object](#the-product-object). The required fields are marked in bold. 

To get a list of all your attributes, see [List the attributes in an attribute set](./04_RetrieveEntityData.md#list-the-attributes-in-an-attribute-set).

| Attribute key    | Data type | Description | Comments | 
| ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- |-------| 
| **id**      | integer    |  Product identification number  |  |
| **attributeSetId**   | integer  | Attribute set identification number | |

> | variantStatus | string | Product status | It indicates whether a product is *single*, *master* or *variant*. This field is updated automatically when a product status changes, e.g. when adding variants to a product, thus becoming a master. Therefore, it cannot be manually updated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| variantStatus | string | Product status | It indicates whether a product is *single*, *master* or *variant*. This field is updated automatically when a product status changes, for example, when adding variants to a product, thus becoming a master. Therefore, it cannot be manually updated. |
```

> | **variantSet**    | object | Set containing the attributes for product variation | It contains the required field **id**.  |

Reviewer: attribute **id**??

> | **_pim_variants** | object | Master or variant product definition | Depending on the product status (master or variant product), the fields contained vary. <br> A master product contains the following fields: <br> **variantSetId** (integer), **isMasterEntity** (true), and, if variant products already available,  **childrenIds** and **numberOfChildren**. <br> A variant product contains the following fields: <br>  **variantSetId** (integer), **isMasterEntity** (false), **masterId** (integer), and the object **definingValues**. The object **definingValues** is an array of objects, where at least one **attributeName** and one **value** must be defined, e.g. *_pim_ean* and *Variant-1* respectively. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **_pim_variants** | object | Master or variant product definition | Depending on the product status (master or variant product), the fields contained vary. <br> A master product contains the following fields: <br> **variantSetId** (integer), **isMasterEntity** (true), and, if variant products already available,  **childrenId**s and **numberOfChildren**. <br> A variant product contains the following fields: <br>  **variantSetId** (integer), **isMasterEntity** (false), **masterId** (integer), and the object **definingValues**. The object **definingValues** is an array of objects, where at least one **attributeName** and one **value** must be defined, for example, *_pim_ean* and *Variant-1* respectively. |
```

### Sample: Add an image to a product

    {
        "product": {
            "id": 891,
            "_pim_images": {
                "images": [
                    {
                        "id": "/EcmFileImage/PIM Product/Hosen/IDS_FROM_1_TO_500/632_actindotrousers-blue"
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }    

> [Info] The images are stored in the *ECM* module. To upload images via API, you need to provide the path (file location) to the image you want to upload. If you are uploading an image to a variant product, the "_pim_images" attribute must be included in the variant set. 

### Sample: Add variant defining attributes

    {
        "product": {
            "id": "961",
            "_pim_ean": "Variant-2"
        }
    }

> [Info]: To create a product family, see [Create a product family](#create-a-product-family), the required defining attribute(s) must be defined in the variant-to-be product(s).

## Create a product family

[comment]: <> (Oder Create a variant-master product structure?)

> Once you have created your products, you can link them together to create a product family. A product family is a group of products comprising a master product and its variant products. You can also move a variant product to another product family, that is, link it to a different master product. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created your products, you can link them together to create a product family. A product family is a group of products comprising a master product and its variant products. You can also move a variant product to another product family by linking it to a different master product. 
```

| **variantSet**          | object    | Variant set | It contains the required field **id**.  |

> [Info] The *variantSet* parameter is only necessary if the master-to-be is not a master product yet.

### Sample: Link a single variant to master product

      {
        "variantProduct": {
          "id": 951
        },
        "parentProduct": {
          "id": 941
        },
        "variantSet": {
          "id": 91
        }
      }

### Sample: Link multiple variants to master product

        [
            {
                "variantProduct": {
                    "id": 1161
                },
                "parentProduct": {
                    "id": 1121
                },
                "variantSet": {
                    "id": 91
                }
            },
                {
                "variantProduct": {
                    "id": 1141
                },
                "parentProduct": {
                    "id": 1121
                },
                "variantSet": {
                    "id": 91
                }
            }
        ]

## Delete a product

> You can delete a product if it is no longer needed. If it is a master product, that is, with a product with variants, all variants will also be deleted. If it is a variant product, only the addressed variant will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can delete a product if it is no longer needed. If it is a master product with variants, all variants will also be deleted. If it is a variant product, only the addressed variant will be deleted.
```

> [Caution] **Loss of data**   
  Deleting will permanently remove the selected data. The deletion cannot be undone and the deleted data cannot be restored. Problems may occur due to unresolved dependencies. Make sure you really want to delete the selected data.

**Endpoint**: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.delete

#### Definitions

The required fields are marked in bold.

| Attribute key  | Data type | Description | Comments |  
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---- |
| **id**      | integer    |  Product identification number | |

### Sample: Delete a product

    {
      "product": {
        "id": 456
      }
    }

## Move a product to recycle bin

> You can delete a product temporarily by archiving it of moving it to the recycle bin. These products can be subsequently restored if necessary. If it is a master product, that is, with a product with variants, all variants will also be archived/moved. If it is a variant product, only the addressed variant will be archived/moved.

Reviewer: siehe oben

**Endpoint**: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.moveToRecycleBin

#### Definitions

The required fields are marked in bold.

| Attribute key  | Data type | Description | Comments |  
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---- |
| **id**      | integer    |  Product identification number | |

### Sample: Move product to recycle bin

    {
      "product": {
        "id": 456
      }
    }

> [Info] You can restore the product sending the same request to the following API endpoint: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.restoreFromRecycleBin

## Move a product to archive

> You can delete a product temporarily by archiving it of moving it to the recycle bin. These products can be subsequently restored if necessary. If it is a master product, that is, with a product with variants, all variants will also be archived/moved. If it is a variant product, only the addressed variant will be archived/moved.

Reviewer: siehe oben

**Endpoint**: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.moveToArchive

#### Definitions

The required fields are marked in bold.

| Attribute key  | Data type | Description | Comments |  
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- |
| **id**      | integer    |  Product identification number | | 

### Sample: Move product to archive

    {
      "product": {
        "id": 456
      }
    }

> > [Info] You can restore the product sending the same request to the following API endpoint: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.restoreFromArchive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] You can restore the product by sending the same request to the following API endpoint: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.restoreFromArchive
```

## List products

Get a list of all products including the ones in the archive or recycle bin. You can set one or more filters.

**Endpoint**: /Actindo.Modules.Actindo.PIM.Products.getList

#### Definitions

The required fields are marked in bold.

| Attribute      | Data type | Description | Comments | 
| ---------------|-----------|-------------|--------- |
| scopeId | integer | Scope identification number | Filter for multi-scope attributes |

> | languageId | integer | Language key/code | Filter for multi-language attributes <br> The language key must fulfill the criteria of the language codes according to [RFC 4646](https://www.heise.de/netze/rfc/rfcs/rfc4646.shtml), e.g. en, en_US, en-US. |

Reviewer: Link ist nicht korrekt gesetzt, würde wieder aktuelles Fenster überschreiben
```suggestion
| languageId | integer | Language key/code | Filter for multi-language attributes <br> The language key must fulfill the criteria of the language codes according to [RFC 4646](https://www.heise.de/netze/rfc/rfcs/rfc4646.shtml), for example, en, en_US, en-US. |
```

| query | string | Query string | Quick search for a string |
| fields | array of strings | Query field | Quick search for a field <br> Enter null to search for all fields |

> | filter | array of objects | Property value filter | It contains the required fields **property** (field to filter), **operator**, and **value**. Usual filter operators are allowed, e.g. >, <, like, and so on.  |

Reviewer: wie wird der operator korrekt bezeichnet? Like müsste "=" sein
```suggestion
| filter | array of objects | Property value filter | It contains the required fields **property** (field to filter), **operator**, and **value**. Usual filter operators are allowed, for example, >, <, like, and so on.  |
```

> | hints | array of objects | Query hint | Set query hints to modify the execution of the query, e.g. get data from non-authoritative resources. It contains the required fields **name** (name of the hint) and **value** (value of the hint). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| hints | array of objects | Query hint | Set query hints to modify the execution of the query, for example,  get data from non-authoritative resources. It contains the required fields **name** (name of the hint) and **value** (value of the hint). |
```
